cool so hopefully we finished off the
person class now we've got a bunch of
new stuff going on in here right so we
should have like that ad phone method
and print details method and stuff what
we're going to do now is go on and have
a look at building a second class so so
far we've got like this person class
that we've built and what we want to do
is we want to add a new class which is
an address book and this is going to
store all of the people that we make
okay so let's go through this process
and work out like what do we what do we
need it to do right so we're gonna have
an address book class and let's look at
some tasks that we need so first of all
the constructor well that's pretty
simple because the way that the way that
I think we want it to work we don't need
to worry about constructor well we
actually wanted to do is basically work
like this so we can set up a new person
say person one
how do we do this Joe and then what was
it
surname and then a date of birth and
then we've got that new person or we
want to be able to do and this is like
the new stuff we need to write we want
to be able to make an address book or
let's call it book right and we don't
need to give anything to construct it
for this so we want to be able to set
that up and then what we basically want
to be able to do is we want to be able
to call an ADD method on this book so
you want to be able to say something
like book don't add and then we want to
be able to pass into here our person
that we created now I'm going to go back
over this in a minute we're going to
write some tests and everything but to
give you an idea of what we want to make
we want to be able to pass that person
into here and then we want to be able to
call book dot entries and we want to get
back from it an array with all of these
person objects so in this case it would
have just just one person object like in
here okay so this is like what we're
building and if you imagine this is like
a class diagram we've basically got one
attribute which is entries so that's
like attribute property on it and then
we've got one method an interest method
which is add and that takes a person
object okay and we don't care about the
return value for it so that's what we're
going to try and build now so tasks wise
we need to create the class and then we
also need to set up this entries thing
with like an initial value so it needs
to have entries that should be which
should be an array and then the second
task that we've got is to add a add
method which takes a a person object
cool so let's work through that then
okay let's start with this first thing
what we need to do is we need to create
a test for this address book now we
could go over into our person testing
and we could like add another describe
thing down the bottom but this file is
called person test is and if you had a
really big project with loads of classes
we wouldn't want to put them all in one
file so what we're going to do instead
is we're going to add a new file called
address book dot test ojs and this is
going to contain the test for our jess
book so we can keep them kind of
separate I'm just going to go and copy
and paste this top stuff here okay
getting chai in and all that so that we
can put it in our just book and then I'm
also going to copy and paste this first
described thing here and put that down
here
and this wants to be a just book so now
we need to start thinking about the
tests we want so we probably want to
test the initializes properly so let's
just say it initializes properly and
then we want to basically there's not
much to do in here we want to say
something like book equals new address
book and then we want to just check that
book entries is a empty array just like
we did over in the person test where we
were checking that the the thing here
was in a row okay
so we need to turn this into an
expectation okay so we need to say
expect book got entries to deep equal
and empty all right so if we run that
now
we can see that all of our person tests
are still passing but we've got a
failure here right address book is not
defined which makes sense so we need to
define our address book and we'll
require that in and will require a file
that we haven't made yet so that's gonna
be models and then we should call that
file use the same naming convention so
we're going to call it address book dot
J yes and if we try running that we get
this big gnarly error that we saw before
because you can't find the file so we
need to go and make one
cool now while we're in here I'm kind of
instead of going into like doing some
more TDD and running the test again we
know that we need to create a class in
here right so I might as well just do
that now class address book and then we
know we need to export that so you just
wanna module exports address book
hopefully now if we run the tests we get
a fader saying that we expected
undefined and actually it was we were
expecting a empty array so we need a
construction here which sets up an empty
array so we need to name this right so
in our test if we have a look at the
test we expected it to be called M
entries that's the property we need so
we need to say this dot entries equals
an empty array and we've got a green
test for initializing properly so the
next thing we need to do in our test is
go back and implement this add method so
we should write a test for that and this
needs a bit more setup if you think
about the four phase testing right we
set up actually execute the thing verify
it work correctly in this this test the
only setup is creating the address book
okay in fact that's also in this case
that's also the the action that we're
trying to verify right but in this we
need a bit more setup so we're going to
say it can add people to the book and
then inside the test we need to do some
stuff so first of all we need to create
the yes book so we've got somewhere to
put them and what we want to do down
here somewhere is we want to basically
be able to so the thing we're testing we
want to be able to say book dot add and
then we want to give it like a person in
here yeah like an actual person object
and then we need to do some sort of
expectation afterwards right but we
haven't actually got any person objects
here at the moment
so we need to create a person object so
let's just create one called person one
which we know how to do with new person
this is the thing we did earlier and
let's make it Joe Bloggs
so we're creating a new person and then
what we can do is we can pass that new
person into here okay and if you just
run this test in fact let's not run it
yet so you don't go an expectation
that's right like a simple expectation
so let's say that we expect but our
entries and this is going to return the
Irate book to entries and just for a
simple test to begin with let's just say
we expect book entries dot length to
equal can you guess what it should equal
like one right because we've put one
person into it and hopefully if we run
this we'll get an interesting failure so
it says he a person is not defined okay
and that's because we try to create a
new person here but in in our test in
our dress book test we don't have any
way of actually creating people because
we don't have this person class
available in here so what we need to do
is we need to bring that in in the same
way that we did in the person test okay
so not only are we bringing in the
address book but because this test
relies on being able to create a person
inside the test we've also got to
require in the person class that we
wrote and now we've got an error which
is kind of more like what we wanted
we've got a book daddy's not a function
which makes sense so we head over to
address book and add a function here
called add and we know that wants to
take a person and then a bit like we did
with the other bit like we did with the
emails and the phone numbers we just
need to say this store entries dot push
and we're going to push that person into
the entries and hopefully
we'll get some green tests cool so this
implementation kind of kind of works
right it meets a criteria at the moment
but it doesn't actually confirm that
like this person is the thing that got
put in here so one of the things that we
could do is we could leave this
assertion saying that we expect it to
now have one one entry in the phone book
but we could also come down here and ask
like well what should that first entry
be okay
so this is gonna get the first thing in
the entries right and if we wanted to
say compared on first name we could we
could actually compare the first name to
whatever we're certain against here so
we could say get the first entry in the
address book and then look for its first
name and expect that to equal joke and
so we've got kind of two expectations
testing what's going on now there's a
bit of an argument for not doing this
because this introduces like a
dependency on the person class in that
if we change on our person class we
change the attribute from first name to
four name this test will start breaking
but he's probably cool for now right so
let's just run those make sure it still
works cool so this might seem a little
bit weird this idea of passing in a
person object so let's talk about that
for a minute so it can sometimes be kind
of weird when we first start looking at
putting stuff that aren't strings or
numbers into a race and so far we've
only looked at putting strings and
numbers and things like that in a race
so if we have a look at this we've got
our kind of entries array down here and
we're used to seeing stuff like this
entries dot plus one and that's going to
put the string one in the first box at
here right and if we do entries dot post
two it will put the string two in the
second box and the same with the string
three only now we've got kind of
different situation because we've got
this person class which is like a
factory for building new objects so when
we say p1 equals new person and give you
some details to the constructor
that's going to make a new instance from
that factory class okay it's going to
make a new person who's got the first
name Danny in the surname Smith and
that's an object of type person and then
if we call p2 equals a new person to
give it Angie's details we get another
instance of the person class and what
this means is that if we now do entries
push and we pass in that first person
object it's not going to put a string or
an integer or something in that first
box it's actually going to move the
object Danny Smith object in there and
if we do entry stop push p2 it's going
to move Anjali into the second box so
what this means is that if we write
something like this in other words we go
and get the first bit of or the first
item in that array that's going to
return an actual person object and
because it's an actual person object it
has methods available on it and it has
attributes on it like dot first name so
if we run this line it's going to return
and daddy's name